---
layout: post
title: Facebook Spam...
---

Well, I was wondering how long it would take.

From "Myrtie Cason" -

"hiya Kit, you look pretty cool, we should chat sometime or something. im new, i dont really get facebook, but you should check out at the other site i go to, http://tinyurl.com/36vozf my username's feistysweetie. just don't mind my pics lol. umma anyway, hope to talk to you soon!"

It took almost 3 months...but it happened.  I actually have to give the Facebook folks credit it only took 2 days for the shite to end up in my Gmail inbox.

But, how hard is it to not allow messages from non-friends to hit my Inbox?  The request can be blind, but no effing messages.  How hard?

Though this is just a good reminder that there is NO privacy in/on the Internet.  Period.  Anyone who is convinced otherwise is a fool.

Anyone else remember the days when we used to create goofy user names so we could protect our identities?  I gave that up long ago and have used 'kitplummer' just about everywhere I can.  I suppose this is problematic for a few to understand.  But, see the thing is - I'm more worried about the meth users that live in the apartment complex down the street than I am of some whack in Estonia phishing my Facebook Inbox.  If I have something to hide - it doesn't hit my Inbox.  Period #2.  Public, or even corporate email is as secure as my 8 year-old son.

The sad thing is - that I am probably lax in my vigilance.  I would rather look at net-hacks in the same way I view terrorist.  You effers are not going to get in my way of living an enjoyable, stress-free life.  Now, I can't say the same thing about my teenager.
