---
layout: post
title: Hellotxt Dumb.  Twitter Dumber.
---

At least 80% of the times when I attempt to update "Twitter":http://www.twitter.com/kitplummer I get the "overloaded" bullshit.  Amazing, in today's "everything-scales" technotopia cloud we can't get me guaranteed access to a free service.  Geez.

I've been on and off the Twitterino bandwagon a few times already, and am about to drop off forever.  The only thread hanging is that a few peers use twitter as their pseudo-blog.  I really wish they wouldn't - but, unfortunately they are (even with no social network intent).

I recently found "Hellotxt":http://www.hellotxt.com via another fairly new playa "BrightKite":http://www.brightkite.com.  I'm sure I'm at least a couple of months behind...because Hellotxt already has all the majors lined up and a load of the "what the hell is thats".  About the only one of these cats that is remotely interesting is Facebook.  I realize I should prolly care a bit more about LinkedIn - but, I have a job (at least I think I do).

So, if Twitter wins the "dumber" award for not being able to scale (and I don't want to hear the dumbass Rails argument either), then Hellotxt picks up the dumb one.  I actually think Hellotxt is interesting simply because it is stupid that I can't just blog my own updates...from my site, and load the feed to all these sites.  At least Hellotxt is a step towards unification of the belt.

Anyway...kind of a mindless Friday lunch - looking at some of these new fangled things that are supposed to improve my social life.
