---
layout: post
title: Moving On...Thanks and So Long.
---

Well, today was the last day of four-plus years with my previous
employer. I think I’ve done fairly well at maintaining sanity (personal
and those around me) for the past few years while our projects
rollercoastered through existence.

I’ve written software and built systems that do and will defend our
nation, protect our troops, and optimize our police and firefighters.
I’ve seen some of the coolest technology imaginable. I’ve made people
smarter…and grown myself as a technologist; more importantly,
enlightened as a citizen.

I want to thank those who’ve helped me and stood in my way with the same
fervor. You’ve made me the person I am and will be as I help my new
employer achieve its goals and objectives.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sometimes the truth needs to be told regardless if anyone is listening.

-   People who sleep on the job should be fired
    -   I don’t know how many times I’d walk by a cube and watch someone
        doze away. If you are that tired - go to bed earlier. If you are
        that stressed - find a new job.

<!-- -->

-   Intra-corporate empires are bad.
    -   Departmental structures prevent flexibility. And putting ROAD
        (retired on active duty) people in positions of authority is
        just not logical.

<!-- -->

-   Hardware - Software finger pointing is just stupid.
    -   It should be about system ownership and not broken down to the
        segregation of hardware and software systems. There is no such
        thing as a software-only system.

Ah hell…I could go on and on, nevermind. Enough dirty laundry. But, one
more.

-   Government/military use of Open Source is happening. Java will be
    embedded in missiles, control lasers, link cockpits, task robots.
    Open standards are the solution - not patents. The Enterprise and
    the Battlespace aren’t that different.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I’ll take “will” over “skill” any day. I’ve watched way too many smart
people wallow in the bureaucratic quagmire of federal contractordom -
rather than rise above with effort and energy. Frederick Brook’s
“hustle” rings true. A small team of hard working individuals will
always produce more than a room full of Ph.D braniacs. Fortunately, I’ve
been able to work in the former environment - working my butt off (with
midnight Taco Bell, and scorching desert flight tests included). It
really wasn’t until I started trying to capture my work to pass it on,
that I realized exactly how much we’ve accomplished.

So, here’s to the “small” team that has given me the opportunity to
shine and move on. I couldn’t be more proud - and am envious of the work
that lies ahead of them. Good luck Scott, Kelly, Aaron, and Renée. To my
ex-employer - realize what you have and embrace it, promote it and
compensate it.
