---
layout: post
title: public GoodKarma produceOpenSource(SoftwareProject code){}
---

Following up on my previous
[post](http://www.blackholelogic.com/2007/12/14/open-source-software-and-the-dod)
and [Jim Stogdill’s
post](http://limnthis.typepad.com/limn_this/2007/12/building-open-s.html)
there is a huge void in the DoD’s understanding of what it means to be a
part of the Open Source “community”.

When General Justice is quoted as saying " [When we rolled into Baghdad,
we did it using open source](http://www.linux.com/feed/61302) " what he
really means is: yeh, we paid RedHat for software just like we pay
WindRiver, Oracle, Microsoft, et al. The fact that the Linux
distribution is made up of Open Source Software is a byproduct, a
tendril of the normal acquisition process. This is absolutely nothing to
be excited about, unless you are RedHat.

At the [event](http://www.afei.org/brochure/8a03/index.cfm) this week
General Justice bedazzled the generally ignorant attendees with his
ability to play comedian. But, to my surprise had absolutely nothing
useful to say about Open Source Software. Come on people, are we not
past the fact that Open Source Software does not imply in any way shape
or form Open Technology Development? The key word: development is
missing from the DoD (except for a very few previously mentioned
projects).

There was even a goon, who works for my previous employer, who had the
audacity to say that if he signed a contributor’s agreement he would get
fired. Amazing. I didn’t have it in me that day to tell the poor chap
that his company pays to be part of the JCP and sits on multiple JSRs. I
also was nice enough to not tell him that his company was paying
employees to help develop RTSJ. But, this person wasn’t even close to
being the worse antagonist. I couldn’t look at the guy long enough to
recognize the company name on his badge - but, he made it clear to
everyone that he works on the Army’s Future Combat System (FCS).
[SOSCOE](http://www.boeing.com/ids/soscoe/index.html) is one of the many
stories that, due to its flailing, gives weight to the Open Technology
Development argument. Unfortunately for us taxpayers this guy is getting
a paycheck.

Back to General Justice. I actually believe he had good intentions in
his spiel. But, he lost me. He started making a point about
“Citizenship” - which had me thinking that he was going to say the Army
wants to be a good Open citizen. If that WAS his intention - he didn’t
make the connection. And, the General running out the door without
answering any questions led me to believe he found himself back in the
corner. I’m not an Open Source genius - that’s for sure. I can only
imagine that the General felt like I would feel going to OSCON and
talking about contributing code.

OK, enough rambling. I’d just like to attempt to finish General
Justice’s thought and expand on Jim Stogdill’s karma point. The DoD
likes to think it is a good citizen. By funding DARPA we, the United
States, have received commercial products from the DoD - much in the way
“things” have rolled out of NASA. The thing with being a good citizen is
that it requires contribution to the given society. If the General
really wants to be on the forefront of Open Technology citizenship, then
how about opening FCS’ SOSCOE platform. If interoperability is really
the issue that needs to be overcome - how about building SOSCOE in the
open and being a good citizen? Hmmn. Well, that would force Boeing to be
a good citizen too. I realize there are a slew of very complicated
things (starting with the acquisition/contracts) that would have to be
resolved. I’m sure Boeing would argue that there is a ton of IP in the
code…but, this shouldn’t matter. It is still their IP, and their
copyright…and, the biggest data point against that argument, is that
they are still getting paid the same, regardless.

One last thought. What if the government gave karma points for good
citizenship. You produce Open Source Software, you demonstrate good
will, you should at a minimum get the recognition of doing so if not a
competitive advantage.

That’s it for now. I’m sure I’ll have something else to whine about
shortly.
