---
layout: post
title: Research Agenda?  Collaboration Overload?  The Best Blog Post Ever!
---

[Brad Neuberg](http://codinginparadise.org/about/bio.html) has put
together one of the best blog posts I’ve read in a long time. The title:
[Creating a Personal Research
Agenda](http://codinginparadise.org/weblog/2007/08/creating-personal-research-agenda.html)
doesn’t do the post justice. Within the post he makes a few incredible
revelations.

First, the notion of a personal research agenda is something that every
working individual should carry, and be held accountable for (in a
professional manner, of course). In a few of my previous posts I’ve
commented on the lack of self-learning abilities in new college grads.
Brad’s post is right on target…but, I absolutely think it is an
industrial fallacy to have to wait for a “sabbatical” to put the agenda
together.

Second, and probably more noteworthy to me is Brad’s \#5, where is
raises the issue of collaboration overload. I’m not sure that we are
quite to a level of “overload” just yet. Though I would definitely agree
that there is a management “layer” that is missing. I’m also not a
believer in the Google-must-solve-every-problem mantra that seems to be
rampant. As a user of Gmail, I’m actually fairly happy with it - as an
email tool.

I’d recently read a post somewhere where a guy has completely dumped
email use in favor of Facebook’s messaging. The fact that you must be
“friended” in the Facebook world before you can message eliminates much
of the inherent junk in email world. Plus, Facebook (to their credit)
have done a good job at protected the masses from SPAM. We’ll see if
they can hold their API tight enough to continue to offer innovative
services and protect the sanctity of users.

My point is that this isn’t collaboration overload. It is simply more
“natural selection” of web functionality (regardless of its version
1.0:2.0).

No. 7 is really tied to No. 5. Linking users, as well as data is
important. By linking correctly, we can help prevent potential
collaboration overload. Intelligent context switching of systems’
backends based on user preferences and operational domains.

Anyway…[Brad’s
post](http://codinginparadise.org/weblog/2007/08/creating-personal-research-agenda.html)
is a logical front on many different paths - and very worthy relaying
here.
