---
layout: post
title: Agile Software Engineering & Computing Security...
---

Agile Software Engineering & Computing Security…two catchy buzz-phrases
from the current world of software. Now, at first glance one probably
can’t make the immediate connection between the two. So stick with me
for a second. I’ve recently been introduced to formal Agile methods
(Scrum) and I have to say that I’m really enjoying it and seeing the
value. However, I’m am also starting to see why many organizations fail
in their initial endeavors into Agile.

Here’s the simple case at hand. My current project involves distributed
systems, scalability, and the rough notion of Software as a Service
(SaaS). In that, an experienced engineer will quickly rationalize some
level of security. Here’s where Agile gets very difficult. My project
has started from scratch with three core engineers. Because we are
focusing on specific system behaviors during each sprint (including
learning some very key technologies) we are not looking to the
proverbial horizon. Security, in a very rough form, HAS been captured in
the projects backlog. \[But, I believe this partly due to the fact that
we are generally an other-than-commercial company - and in this case
security is part of the company DNA.\]

It would be very, very easy for us to get in to full-on development mode
solving many problems, while overlooking how security (and thus
scalability) fits in to the picture. My previous experience with Agile
was a modified XP environment…and this very thing happened. It didn’t
really occur to me why, until just recently. We were so focused on
meeting the customer’s immediate requirements that we painted ourselves
into a “security” corner. I realized late in the game that our
infrastructure was not capable of locking down the way that we needed -
and much work was needed to get to a satisfactory point. The
development/engineering process will take the hit…and traditionalist
will say “if you had just done more systems engineering.”

Security is just one aspect of design, that if not enforced from day one
as a sprint requirement/task, is almost unrecoverable on the back end. I
can only imagine that there are many other “gotcha things” that would
wreck an Agile process, and the ability to delivery what the customer
really needs at the end. Fortunately, I work with enough “wisefolk” that
prevent front-end failure. Again, I can now understand why many Agile
attempts hit the wall.

I’m not saying that Agile is at fault. But, I can see how Agile just
gets going - and without good oversight and very experienced engineers
will eventually get hit with a 2x4.
