---
layout: post
title: Tools o' the Trade - SOA Development...
---

The rest of the list is scattered, I apologize for that.  Maybe, you'll be able to find something here that you didn't already know about.

* [Subversion](http://subversion.tigris.org) - Source code management has become a very critical part of my development world.  Integration of Open Source projects, and managing geographically distributed teams has made code management essential.  It has taken a while to really get comfortable with Branch/Tag-based development - but, it is so worth it.  There are many UI front-ends for Subversion, but nothing really good for OS X.  There are a couple - however, I seem to always fall back to the command-line or just use the Eclipse plugin (which is ok).

* [Google](http://www.google.com) - Nothing really to say about this.  I don't know how I did anything pre-Google.

* [TextMate](http://macromates.com) - The best money I've ever spent on an editor.  The language support is incredible (including Markdown which I used to write this post).  It also has Subversion-support built-in.  By far the best text/development editor I've ever seen.  If you want a test drive check [this creating a weblog screencast](http://www.rubyonrails.org/screencasts) out.

* [iTerm](http://iterm.sourceforge.net) - This tool is incredible useful.  Not that the Apple Terminal is that bad, but it is missing "tab" support.  Enter iTerm.

* [OmniGraffle](http://www.omnigroup.com/applications/omnigraffle/) - Diagramming is another part of development that often gets over-looked (ala design).  OmniGraffle is an incredible, Visio-compatible, app that is Mac-centric.  It is extremely refined - I use it too much, even when words would probably suffice - just because it is so easy.

* [OmniOutliner](http://www.omnigroup.com/applications/omnioutliner/) - OmniGraffle's sister app.  And, they are integrated.

* [FreeMind](http://freemind.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Main_Page) - An indispensable brain-storming tool.

I'm sure there are others worth noting (like FireFox).  Maybe, sometime I'll come around for Part Two.
