---
layout: post
title: Open Source Software and the DoD...
---

Worse than the fact that the DoD is just proving that it is not a “good
citizen” is that the only thing they are interested in is getting
cheaper software. It was humorous that RedHat showed up for Army General
Justice’s spiel. It was equally humorous to pseudo-listen to sales
pitches by Sun, Palamida, and a few other commercial organizations.
Sun’s presence is understandable - they are attempting to pull out of
their downward-spiral by surfing the Open Source strategy. Palamida is
nothing but a parasite. In fact, it appears that their business case is
to scare its potential customers into submission. The CEO had the guts
to say that there were 250+ different copies of zlib found on an
engineers laptops (referencing known bugs in older versions of the
common compression library). The guy can’t even conceptualize the
difference between source code distribution and the use of libraries.
The saddest bit is that Palamida will probably be able to leech of the
ignorance that still exists in the DoD community regarding the Open
Source community. At least Black Duck Software is focusing on the viral
license issue - and not using scare tactics to win business.

Fortunately, there were a few bright spots which will probably keep me
wanting to go back. The well read Open Technology Development paper’s
next edition should be hitting the streets soon, with a more practical
focus, a howto version. There were my expected stories, a total of four
- and one of those was mine. The other three: Ball Aerospace’s
[Opticks](https://www.ballforge.net/) project,
[Delta3d](http://www.delta3d.org) from Alion, and IEM’s
[WebPuff](http://www.openiem.com/) project.

I believe there are a couple of issues stalling the relationship between
the Open Source world and the DoD (beyond generic ignorance/arrogance).
The first is a process for handling ITAR restrictions, or getting formal
approval by the project customer to work a solution as Open Source.
Obviously, there are quite a few details that fall out of this issue
such as, that fact that the contractor actually owns the source code
(copyright), regardless of the contract definitions for deliverables and
that the contractor can actually do whatever they want with the code
within security/classification constraints. The second, and most likely
greater issue, is the fact that the acquisition framework is not
incentivized to promote Open solutions. Don’t get me wrong, I believe it
is really the contractors responsibility for pushing Open solutions.
However, until the contract vehicles can seamlessly handle Open
Technology Development is will too painful for vendors and contractors
to be proactively work in an Open fashion. Lastly, it was very clear to
me that it was the wrong audience. The event needs Program Managers,
engineers, and “real” Open Source community involvement.

At lunch, one of the days, I happened to sit at a table with a few
“older” gentleman from Booz Allen, who obviously weren’t “getting it”.
One of the guys kept saying they weren’t technical so some of the
content didn’t make any sense. I don’t think it was a case of them not
being technical, but simply not prepared. They were definitely impressed
with General Justice’s speaking ability and believed that he’s a
champion. As soon as I disagreed it quickly went quiet. More on this in
a subsequent post. Stay tuned, this rant isn’t done.
