---
layout: post
title: My EclipseCon2008 Experience...
---

First…I had a good time. The [Bug Labs](http://buglabs.net) guys are a
welcomed addition…not the typical ego-driven Open Source rockstars that
seem to be taking over these kinds of events. I attended their
[BUG+SV](http://www.bugblogger.com/2008/03/reminder-bugsv.html) which
was fun (even without wifi - how strange is that, Palo Alto and no
wifi?).

The event itself is a bit too robotic…maybe that is what happens when a
company like IBM runs/orchestrates an event. I know IBM didn’t literally
run it - but…

Speaking of rockstars there were some big ones. Erich Gamma is pushing
Jazz. Ok, really there were only a few deserving of the dub. Quite a few
who thought they were though. The guy that presented after me (have no
clue who he is) walked around the whole week like people were asking for
his autograph.

The best presentation I attended was Marcel Offerman and Karl Paul’s
tutorial on [Building Secure OSGi
Applications](http://www.eclipsecon.org/2008/?page=sub/&id=300).
Fortunately, there *is* effort on that front - because it was a huge
void just even a year ago.

My
[slides](http://www.slideshare.net/kitplummer/eclipsecon2008-the-dod-open-source-and-osgi-as-server-infrastructure/)
are up at [Slideshare](http://slideshare.net) - with a few edits. I
actually dropped in a pretty sketchy picture depicting the IRS - which I
pulled out for the masses. I think it went fairly well. I’d actually
overheard a few folks standing in the hallway considering coming in -
but, were thinking that my presentation would be a sales pitch. I
suppose part of that is due to the abstract. However, I think too many
presentations came out that way…commercials.

So, I prefaced my talks with my objective of telling a story…with a few
provocative facts thrown in. I think overall it was accepted well. Based
on the green(+1)/red(~~1) bucket distribution it was a bit more popular
than not. I do believe there were a few who were hoping to hear how OSGi
is being used across the DoD with spectacular success and when I stated
the contrary just got in the groove of shaking their head~~ over nodding
in approval. But, that’s how it goes. There were also a few folks with
the DoD as the organization printed on their badge. I’m not exactly sure
if that meant that worked for the DoD itself or a contractor. This is a
good sign though…their attendance proves things are changing.

There was one question at the end that I struggled to answer. “How do
you make the business case to Accenture to have people contribute to
Open Source”. My answer was that it is not a “business” problem, but a
cultural one. I know that might be hard to swallow - but, the reality is
that most development organizations - let alone one’s in the DoD space -
just aren’t filled with people who’d be comfortable with submitting a
patch, or even posting to a mailing list. The current culture is one
where everyone is used to having paid support and if it isn’t there then
someone made a bad decision. Even though I made the case that
consummation of Open Source is a “standard” practice these days - that
doesn’t translate to the consuming at a developmental level. Using Linux
doesn’t imply that the user is going to be willing to commit
anything…quite the contrary. All that said, while working at Raytheon I
did have to make the business case - and I did it successfully by buying
a support contract with an Open Source parent. It took some time before
other developers were comfortable with the notion of fixing the problems
themselves then giving the fixes to the support company. It was even
longer before anyone was comfortable with contributing back directly to
the community. But, was that was done - we were able to make the case to
the “software” organization that this should be recognized as an
expected practice, based on the fact that it reduced the time for the
fix to turn around in to the next release of the consumed Open Source
project (dependency problems being a critical part of consuming OSS).
The argument was made that the cost of supporting a community was far
less that the license and maintenance costs for a proprietary solution.
Once you are to numbers, it is really that simple - getting to the
numbers is the hard part, and that was my point in response to the
original question. BTW, from the other side of the fence the Open Source
projects don’t appear to care either way…they keep moving and fix what
they deem necessary.

Also, getting “psychological” support from a few key OSGi folks was
really nice. It appears that the OSGi community in general (beyond
Eclipse) seems to really care about the problem domains of their users.
I hope to follow up on those fronts in the near future.

It was also pretty exciting to see what’s happening with
[ServiceMix](http://www.servicemix.org), Apache’s leading ESB effort -
which is now built out from OSGi (Felix). \[Thanks Oisin for your
time.\] I was disappointed in the Swordfish effort - at least what was
presented. I was hoping there’d be more momentum - we’ll have to wait
and see if there ever will be a critical mass there. The Sopera guys
were nice and I do believe that they have the right objective. Something
that I’d not really considered until very recently was the decisions
being made on which Foundation to jump in bed with: Eclipse or Apache.
Sopera is obviously working within the Eclipse Foundation…because there
is a hole in the offering. I’m just not sure there is really a market
for an Eclipse-based ESB. I could be wrong though.

I ran in to a few folks that resulted in great conversations. I talked
with *the* SourceForge guy - and it was interesting to get his take on
things - versus what you hear from the guys at CollabNet. I’m not really
sure SourceForge is healthy - but, they keep chugging (good for them).

That’s it for now. Ping me if you have any questions, or comments.

Oh yeh, there was one missing organization. Sun.
