---
layout: post
title: Someone Agrees with Me.  YAY!  CS Students are Getting Ripped.
---

I’ve been saying for a while now that CS graduates are ill-equipped as
they enter the working world. I don’t believe it is a language issue, or
even really a skill issue. But, after reading
[this](http://itmanagement.earthweb.com/career/article.php/3722876) I’ve
figured out the problem. CS programs are just too easy? NO. CS programs
are just selling the wrong stuff.

There is a huge difference between CS and the profession of software
engineering. I don’t want to rehash old arguments here but, I think
Dewar misses it big in his
[source](http://www.stsc.hill.af.mil/CrossTalk/2008/01/0801DewarSchonberg.html)
argument. I’m mean come on, this coming from a guy who makes his living
off of Ada? Give me a break! Students don’t need more languages to learn
in college. They’ll get that eventually if they are good enough to
survive. They need to know how to integrate both technically and
socially.

The bottom line is that there are jobs working with many different
languages. Mashup artists are in high demand…because projects really
aren’t single language-centric anymore. It is all about system
integration - the wheel has already been invented (in most cases).
Testing, collaboration and architecture are way more important than the
Towers of Hanoi problem.

So, if you aren’t getting introduced to Spring, RTOSes,
Javascript/Python/Ruby/AS3/etc, Eclipse, Behavior-Driven Development,
robotics, SOA/ESB/WS and the like - then you are indeed getting ripped
off. Don’t get me wrong I’m not saying the science part of CS is
irrelevant - it just isn’t everything.

More importantly, if you as a student of CS, are only concerned with
what you are being fed, and are not smart enough to look around at what
is going on in the industry - then you are probably getting exactly what
you deserve. The problem here is that most hiring peeps don’t course
correct, and not hire you.

Ok, now consider how sour the software development job market has gone.
Outsourcing, is everything now. Hell, the outsourcing companies
outsource. There just aren’t enough good software engineers out there to
fix this problem. Yes, I’m pointing the finger at the university
systems, especially here in the U.S. But, equally to blame are the
students, and to some extent companies that hire incapable CS grads.
Well, that’s full circle isn’t it. It does get worse. Because, who do
you think drives curricula at these schools (why is Java being taught)?
That’s right, industry.

Damn, I don’t even remember why I started this rant. Oh yeh. At least we
are starting to take a finer-grained look at the problem. Dewars’ entry
in the CrossTalk Journal is a step in the right direction…obviously, my
small voice wasn’t making a damn bit of difference.
