---
layout: post
title: Geo Data Idea...Rideshare.
---

As part of my ongoing research under the [rVooz](http://www.rvooz.org)
project I keep coming back to the origin of the name: rendezvous. Given
the hype around geo data - see
[Where2.0](http://en.oreilly.com/where2008/public/content/home) for
validation on the “hype” part - I think there’s some good to be taken
away even with the “big brother” risk. What about an application the
links individuals (who know nothing about eachother a priori) based on
their current geo-location, relative to say a square block or something.
The outcome could be something like a rideshare opportunity. The link
could be made real via TXT/SMS, IM, or even VoIP, assuming the “user”
has authorized the connection.

Granted this may not have any meat anywhere but really densely-populated
areas…but, maybe it would serve as a survey to find out if ridesharing
is even feasible.

Web services such as Motionbased.com are doing a very good job of
collecting geo data related to training or sport activities…this same
data could be used for more of a “social networking” concept too. As GPS
devices slim and become a bit more ubiquitous via cellphones and
navigation systems I feel the opportunities are ripe for more proactive
use. What if you tracked your daily drive to work, including timing and
found that there were 10 other people that matched your schedule within
10 minutes. Would you consider ridesharing? What if the link was made
for you, by registering you and your data via a new web service?

What if this kind of capability was added to an already existing web
service, or social networking website? Or, even as an Open Source
desktop application?
