---
layout: post
title: Scrum/Agile == Yin/Yang
---

Part of my original post was incited by seeing multiple organizations
attempt to combine Scrum with traditionally “waterfallish” paradigms
such as [CMMI](http://www.sei.cmu.edu/cmmi/general), and
[IPDS](http://fast.faa.gov/archive/v0903/ams/ams1-11.htm) - as well as
value management concepts like [Earned Value
Management](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earned_value_management). The
results of such efforts is a burden on the developmental layer, where
agile is really intended to impact, by virtue of generic software
engineering practices. Again, the intent is to discuss, in lighthearted
fashion, the delta between Scrum and Agile - based on my assertion that
Scrum IS NOT Agile.

[Scrum is an Agile process that can be used to manage and control
complex software and product development using iterative, incremental
practices.](http://www.controlchaos.com/)

Why is the Agile in ControlChoas.com’s capitalized? To me this implies
that Agile itself has some formal definition. This is a difficult
rationalization for me. Not that Wikipedia is the end-all, be-all
source, but
[it](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_software_development#Principles_behind_agile_methods_.E2.80.94_The_Agile_Manifesto)
appears to resolve “Agile” to the Agile Manifesto (mentioned above).
“Agile methods are a family of development processes, not a single
approach to software development”, as pulled straight from Wikipedia.
For the lack of a better definition we’ll stick with the Manifesto. The
notable Martin Fowler has a few thoughts of his own relative to the
subject, found
[here](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/SchoolsOfSoftwareDevelopment.html).
I don’t necessarily see this as a “school” issue…but, can understand
that there are different tendrils to follow within and around this
discussion.

So, considering what Scrum IS and what Agile IS…why is it Agile that
gets the blame when Scrum flails, falters, or fails? Let’s go back to
the Agile definition from Wikipedia for a second. Family of development
processes? I disagree. Agile is a family of development practices, that
enforce a given process.
[Practices](http://www.pragprog.com/titles/pad/practices-of-an-agile-developer),
not processes. Remember, Agile is about people (and by definition people
over process). Scrum is about process. Agile is about self
responsibility. Scrum is about accountability. Thus, the answer to the
question is: Scrum is dependent on solid Agile practices…without which
Scrum is no better than any other methodology. But, if Scrum is about
accountability which side is really at fault for lack of performance.
I’m hoping at this point you understand my cynical take on this. Logic
would lead us to Scrum and Agile being symbiotic. Scrum, coming from the
accountability camp, must be able to “point” the blame somewhere - and
it can’t be its own fault.

I stated that “…Scrum needs to quit doing agile such a disservice” in my
previous post. In my opinion Scrum is not holding up its end of the
bargain. Scrum too easily arrives at “Process over People”…and thus
contradicts many of the practices described under the Agile umbrella. As
was pointed out in a comment to the previous post, Scrum is
implementation specific. I suppose this is true in theory…but, I think
really Scrum is a formally defined (not standardized) practice. It was
also said that “…process and tools should be malleable”. It has not been
my experience that Scrum provides process flexibility. Indeed, maybe I
am just getting exposed to bad Scrum - it is definitely possible.

At the end of the day, Scrum must be agile (lowercase a) in order to
accommodate all of the benefits of Agile practices. Scrum is definitely
not a one-size fits all delivery mechanism that can be sold as Agile.
And Agile is not a process (or stream of processes), that can be fixed,
or optimized. I see Agile practices as resources and tools that I use to
optimize Scrum with.

Hopefully this clears up the intent of my thinking a bit. I realize this
isn’t any more focused that the previous post. But hey. Have to create
the boundaries first. I promise to pinpoint where I think the issues lie
with Scrum (hint: two-letter acronyms).
