---
layout: post
title: Just an Update...not a Version Release.
---

Ok, so I just finished watching Eben Moglen go “off” the [deep
end](http://radar.oreilly.com/archives/2007/08/my_tonguelashin.html) -
on Tim O’Reilly.

(Not sure how I missed that. Thanks Brian for pointer.)

This, in a round-about way has prompted me to update me…and my stance on
Google and Open Source. Really, it is just a retrofitting of my opinions
ten years ago. I only partly agree with Eben Moglen on his policy
positions. The commercialization of Open Source is the reason that he
had that platform to flap his jaws. So, it is a two-way street. But,
he’s absolutely right about the current media attention. “Marketization”
of technologies (ala O’Reilly’s conference) is creating a strange
landscape focusing on the wrong problems. Open Source isn’t about how a
company can make money. Open Source is about freedom (including the
freedom to make changes to source code and do whatever you want with
’em). Not saying this is right, just that it it is what it is…

I’d lost that in the past few years.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I’ve spent the past few months working with a load of new-to-me
technologies to include Flash/Flex/ActionScript, Ruby (and Rails,
Ramaze, Merb), XMPP/IM/OpenFire, Javascript/AJAX, OSGi and a few
others.. Lot’s of stuff I’d never seen before. I’m really enjoying the
exposure to all of the new things…though, I’m beginning to wonder what
it is doing to my effectiveness.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

So far so good on the Accenture transition. The only real problem was
the hard requirement for Outlook. Before the transition I could use
Entourage, or even Apple Mail to get my Exchange mail. Unfortunately
Accenture has a whole slew of “stuff” they’ve added to the Exchange mix,
forcing me to use VMWare Fusion and Outlook. I do feel a bit
disconnected however - more so than before the acquisition. I’ve only
met one Accenture person face to face…I’m getting the impression this
might be the norm. Not complaining - I’m enjoying my freedom to wake up,
and sit at my desk in my boxers - working (at least until I’ve finished
my second cup of coffee).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Starting to get stuff together for the spiel at
[EclipseCon](http://www.eclipsecon.org/2008/) in March. We have a great
story…am hoping people will show up. ; }

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[rVooz](http://www.rvooz.org) is coming along. We’ve spent the last
sprint/spike looking at an architectural shift. The crux of the problem
is how we establish the architecture to meet both SaaS objectives as
well as deployable (deliverable turn-key systems) objectives. The end
result is that we are looking at a Ruby on Rails web application
environment that is both distributable and scalable - over our existing
OSGi-framework (felix) model.

As far as clients go we are looking at continuing the Google Maps
effort, as well as looking at the potential for an Eclipse plugin (for
developers), a Facebook app, and a few others. We’re also beginning to
discuss our next Voozer - with opportunities in VoIP and maybe Facebook.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

That’s it…just a minor update. Next version coming soon though.
