---
layout: post
title: Abstractions
---

{{ page.title }}
================

It is becoming clearer to me, as we progress with BCIP, that this
concept of self-service problem-solving/emergent innovation extends
beyond the simple boundaries we’ve initially laid out for ourselves.
And, the problem of delivering a platform is so much more difficult than
I’d really even given consideration to. We aren’t just talking about a
technological advancement that improves a warfighter’s operational
ability.

We are really discussing a very low-level transformation in how the
warfighter approaches their job. In
[6Sigma](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Six_Sigma) style, we are hoping to
empower a renewed determination for continuous improvement. I’ve seen it
work in a previous work environment deadset on applying 6Sigma to the
engineering workforce. At first, it was an annoying thorn in my routine,
having to think about problems in my workflow/workplace and then solve
them - documenting to the extremes. Then I began to see opportunities
for small 6Sigma projects all over the place. That was the
transformation…the vision. Unfortunately, lack of collaboration, or
community around the projects allowed for all kinds of duplication, and
poor oversight ensured that the processes were more painful than
employees were truly tolerant of. The value was real, the implementation
poor. But, I now know that I am striving to provide the warfighter with
not only that *vision* but more importantly the tools to implement the
vision.

There are a few mountains to climb, without a doubt. In my opinion, the
greatest hurdle is making the technologies accessible to the
non-programmer, non-coder, non-hacker, at the same exposing enough
capability to entice the programmer, coder, hacker to the community. To
me, the accessibility is the hard part. Like those who’ll dig through an
Excel book to add macros to their pet job-project, I’m hopeful that we
can offer up web-based tools that will inspire those same individuals to
dig into Ruby, or Flex, or setup a LAMP stack. Perhaps it’ll take a bit
of abstraction to get these tools truly accessible by the non-techies.
But, I believe it’s possible, and we’re close. Tools like
[Sinatra](http://www.sinatrarb.com) help show the potential. The ability
to get a web-app “built” with 5 lines of code, including the server is
really the base of what we need. Now, imagine a graphical wizard of two
sitting on top, that can generate the Sinatra DSL from a few questions?

Abstraction is required. Really that’s what we’re talking about at the
data layers as well. Simplifying formats and interfaces to the point
where anyone can access them, read them, and use them.

On an internal Yammer feed, there was some great discussion about
software engineering practices such as Test-Driven Development and
Behavior-Driven Development (BDD). Both are simple abstractions on the
idea that “testing” should be a design and development practice, not a
post-development activity. BDD is pushing out design practices to the
user/owner’s level…allowing them to define expected app behavior. BDD is
implemented as next-tier higher language (a domain specific language)
that is executable and passes successfully when all expected behaviors
are met. It is a basic abstraction of technologies that allows business
and quality stakeholders into the processes. BCIP needs the same
abstractions to allow warfighters in on the solutions to their problems.
