---
layout: post
title: NEBULA, The Blueprint for BCIP
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

I've been buried with Sprint review preparation and a painful introduction to DDS (thanks Mitre).  Sorry for the gap.

Well, it looks like NASA has beat us to the architectural punch.  "NEBULA":http://nebula.nasa.gov/services is proclaimed to be a "self-service" computing platform, built out of Open Source pieces.  Just glancing at the system "box" diagram it is easy to see that they envision the full-range of "hosting" options as we've drawn in our preliminary sketches of BCIP.  NEBULA includes EC-like virtual hosting, as well as an app-hosting platform based on "Django":http://www.djangoproject.com.  Cool.  

We obviously need to reach out to them to discuss the potential for gleaming their discovery and decision matrices - in order to prevent wasted energy researching.

There are a couple of things that don't really align with our "individuals first" thinking.  NEBULA has integrated Trac, a python based, project-centric platform that sits on top of Subversion.  Where we think a Github(like) addresses our problem-solver needs, but still provides project capabilities like issue tracking and wikis.  I do understand the logic behind the Trac decisions though.  Testing and continuous integration should be provided to any project with the need.  It is a question I'm sure we'll have to answer.

Hopefully, I'll have more insight in the near future - and some good fortune in attempting to reuse NASA's efforts.