---
layout: post
title: Citizenship
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Starting another post with a definition, courtesy of Princeton, let’s
consider
[citizenship](http://wordnetweb.princeton.edu/perl/webwn?s=citizenship)
as “the status of a citizen with rights and duties”. Rights and duties.
Hmmn, sounds an awful lot like a two-way street.

At the risk of offending someone - Zed Shaw, *almost* infamous for
calling out the Rails community as a bunch of spoiled babies (now
withdrawn), has recently [sent out another great raw
read](http://zedshaw.com/blog/2009-07-13.html) on the value of the GPL
to the individual developer. The reason: too many take for granted the
“freeness” (free as in $0.00) of Open Source software, without any
contribution, let alone the required attribution. I’m for sure guilty.
At the same time I find myself in the (oft lonely) position of being an
Open Source evangelist in the least likely world of military-use
software, where closed is [more than the
norm](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Traffic_in_Arms_Regulations).

I often hear “its OK to use Open Source” in my projects \[which is a
good thing, especially when thinking as a taxpayer\]. But, I’m growing
tired of this selfish one-way attitude from above. As Zed poignantly
drives even Open Source developers are in it for the money. Accenture is
rapidly moving towards Open Source alternatives for every possible
solution stack we discuss with clients - and every substitution offering
has a commercial entity (to ensure appropriate levels of support and
performance). While moving in the right direction - it falls short in
some regards. This stance doesn’t account for all of the very
high-quality OSS libraries, frameworks and applications that we *could*
use in our custom developed solutions that don’t have a parent
organization. Accenture has a great suite of OSS policies in place to
protect our client’s interest with regard to OSS, as it should. But,
again falling short - these policies doesn’t help me as a “software
engineer” working with a [Jabber plugin for
Grails](http://github.com/kitplummer/grails-jabber/tree/master). Point
is there is an inherent citizenship in Open Source software which we ALL
should be cognizant of, regardless of whether we are consuming or
producing it. And, most importantly policy must reflect the willingness
to be a good citizen.

Ok, so what does this have to do with BCIP, which is to be a
“firewalled” infrastructure providing “services” to military designers
and developers (solution providers)? We need to learn from the licensing
mantras - to ensure that our ecosystem provides the 3-branches of
governance in order to promote the highest quality of citizenship
possible. This is especially true as we espouse [people over
projects](http://kitplummer.github.com/2009/07/07/people-before-projects.html)
in our philosophical thinking. GPL isn’t just a good idea for “that”
side of the fence. We need to figure out how we can create “ports of
embarkation” for our DoD-developed software that CAN flow back up when
necessary. We also need to ensure that our solution providers get the
attribution and accolades that they deserve. BCIP must ensure that
citizenship is the baseline for collaboration and potential emergent
innovation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

As an aside, there’s been some great conversation about how to manage a
[Mil-OSS](http://mil-oss.org) project - whether the optimum is hosting
it under http://software.forge.mil (firewalled to those with DoD
credentials) or under a [GitHub](http://github.com) environment. My call
for a [symbol
server](http://kitplummer.github.com/2009/07/06/milstd2525b-icon-service.html)
project has generated some interest - and definitely is dragging on the
answer. I happen to believe the answer lies in the desire to reach a
maximum usage potential. And, because the symbols I need to server of
public domain (and not ITAR restricted) the project should be hosted on
the Inet-at-large. This obviously raises lots of eyebrows, including
those of my legal/asset council. Intellectual property is a strange
bird. I obviously have little desire to make myself a legal target - as
I only have the interest of my particular customer at interest. So, the
discussion continues. Hopefully we can get something hacked by the
summer Mil-OSS event. ;)
