---
layout: post
title: rVooz and Contextual Connections
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

Don't call it a comeback.  But, there's a recurring theme around automated introductions of individuals with a shared context.  That context could be something like location, a search, a recent tweet, an operational situation - the list goes on and on.  **rVooz**, a play on _rendezvous_, was an Air Force funded OSS project to create automated "contacts" in an XMPP buddy list, based on a shared context - the result is what we called a "contextion".  We didn't get very far, before the entrepreneurial juices went dry - typical start dilemma - even in a government space.  The problem is that the problem still exists, and isn't being solved in a domain-less way.  Meaning there are a lot of point solutions, which address an isolated issue, but those solutions aren't transferrable across problem domains.

Here's an introductory screencast into what rVooz looked like: "http://www.vimeo.com/6741909":http://www.vimeo.com/6741909

I can't help but think this idea could use some flush/fleshing out.  Imagine if the capability was extend beyond just chat/XMPP into VoIP/SIP - and calls could automatically be created based on some event capture.  Geo/location stuff is obviously a great "shiny" input.  Imagine if you could have a skype call automatically setup, when you registered your location and were looking to rideshare - contextions made with others in a given radius.

Or, a more mil-specific use case might be an operational scenario where joint forces were tracking a common object - and could automatically be notified - as well as a communication path between the parties automatically created.

Anyway...just throwing this out there for historical purposes.  :)