---
layout: post
title: Good Rock...Maturity...Soft...Ugh.
---

I’ve seen it way to often. Good rock or metal starts out great when the
band lacks maturity. Then, with popularity (and some years of maturity)
that Good stuff goes away from what made it great. This isn’t always a
horrible thing. U2 comes to mind here. They started with a very
underground, rough rock sound that was emotional and seeping with
passion. Then, took various turns through po(o)p rock - almost to the
point of contemporary. Although I like all their stuff I tend to believe
that it is just the band that I like, and not necessarily the music.
Metallica is another band that went linearly the opposite direction with
their quality as popularity rose. Though I think Metallica’s path is a
bit different (but, that’s another story). The Police to Sting
transition over the years is probably the same too. The Police were
awesome, and Sting by himself is just a good Jazz artist.

The reason that I’m actually writing this post is that I’m totally
bummed by the state of U.S.~~based metal/rock. There’s just very little
that is original, and anything good just gets ruined by radio airplay.
(Don’t get me wrong I know there IS good stuff out there, I’m definitely
speaking in generalities~~ especially with an eye on what gets
publicity). I am glad to see a return of the modern-rock/alternative
scene - there is some good stuff there. But, nothing in the heavy area.
Even though I like some Slipknot and Mudvayne’s stuff - snore. I really
miss the angst and emotion of early 90’s grunge and stoner rock (Kyuss).
Maybe, and this is definitely likely, I’m just not tuned into the right
scenes to get the good stuff.

The recent spat between Chris Cornell and Trent Reznor has me completely
baffled. I’ve never been a NIN fan, and think they’ve sucked hard since
“Head”. So to hear Trent dissin’ Cornell for his “strange” shift to in
production with his Scream album is a bit irritating. This “twitter”
stupidity is just annoying. I suppose it was good publicity because I
went out and grabbed the Scream album. Guess what it is just more of the
good rock gone soft crap. Cornell’s voice laid over dubbed beats is OK,
and some of the tracks are decent (and I actually like it, contrary to
most of the reviews). But, I just don’t understand how we’ve gone from
Soundgarden to Cornell/Timbaland. Is it really just Cornell getting
older? I can’t imagine it is about the money. If he came out and just
admitted it was an experiment - cool. There have been a lot of really
cool experiments, that didn’t require an entire album.

Maybe it isn’t the music that is getting soft? Maybe the rise of Rock
Band and Guitar Hero have removed the edge? I remember the first time
Caiden was playing Slayer in Guitar Here I kept waiting for my wife to
blow up. The relationship between the “heaviness” and the lyrically
content just isn’t there anymore, which is good. I suppose if she knew
what was actually being said in the lyrics it’d be a different story. I
definitely believe there’s been a desensitization of music (especially
the stuff on the edge) - and maybe that’s partially to blame for the
lack of quality in the heavy realms. Perhaps it is a quantity problem,
and not a quality one.

However, there’s a lot of really good stuff coming out of Scandinavia
and Europe in general. I just wish it would have an opportunity for
airplay in the U.S. Then again I kinda don’t. Although I’d love for
these bands to get recognition I don’t want them to have an opportunity
to get spoiled.

Now that I’m thinking about it…a lot of the stuff that I like has been
ruined by lead singers dieing.
[Snot](http://itunes.apple.com/WebObjects/MZStore.woa/wa/viewAlbum?i=116203&id=116231&s=143441)
comes to mind. Blind Melon, Alice in Chains. Then there’s guitarist like
Dimebag who’ve left us.

Ok, enough of this rant…

And…what is up with
[RapCore](http://itunes.apple.com/WebObjects/MZStore.woa/wa/viewAlbum?i=283664602&id=283664414&s=143441)
- Yuck!
