---
layout: post
title: Social Coding in the DoD
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Going to try and keep this one brief, and it is going to be difficult.
So…I have to instantly break a few things up. But, let me start with a
teaser.

**Innovation**, in the Kit Plummer dictionary, is defined as the
collection of ideas which aggregate and compound to solve problems,
inherently, without necessary a priori knowledge of the problem. Ok, so
given my not-so profound definition here it is easy to arrive at the
idea, each individual idea, as the catalyst for innovation. Almost
needless to say, without ideas - no innovation. (Here’s Princeton’s
definition of
[innovation](http://wordnetweb.princeton.edu/perl/webwn?s=innovative)
too.)

My current project, so dubbed the *<span class="big">Battle Command
Innovation Platform (BCIP)</span>*, is attempting to bring many of the
commonly found innovation tools found in the software/IT world to the
U.S. Army
([CERDEC](http://www.army.mil/-news/2009/06/04/22175-cerdec-and-microsoft-share-research-for-multi-touch-technology/)
COBRA). The ultimate objective is to allow the warfighters to solve
their problems and host their own solutions. Imagine Amazon Web Service
+ Google’s AppEngine + GitHub + domain-specific languages (DSLs) +
management, training and support delivered to those with the information
problems at hand. Imagine four levels of complexity: full OS-level
virtual machines (EC2), language-specific application framework(s)
(AppEngine), traditional LAMP site-level hosting, and DSL-based
wizard-driven applications. Add in to the mix, web-based API data
services to front traditional stove-piped systems of records - and Voila
you get the concept that is BCIP.

There are a few key attributes of BCIP that drive the whole conceptual
premise. First, is the notion of “composable” apps. Yes, that composable
- the software holy grail where applications can be built from lego-like
blocks of functionality. But, also (and at the risk of biting the
buzzbar) mashable applications where pieces of data are aggregated
visually to produce new data. And, to some degree the ability to tap
into existing infrastructure apps, documents and data. Secondly, and not
without debate, is the idea of community. Yes, the meritocratic behavior
that is sought after by hackers, projects and commercial entities alike.
But, not necessarily the same kind of community as in the Open Source
world. Within BCIP’s ecosystem, the community is the really only scope
by the problem domain. The only membership requirement is that one has
identified a problem and also is empowered to resolve it.

The end result is emergent innovation. The kind of innovation that comes
from the people closest to the problems solving their problems, and
sharing the solution with everyone across the enterprise. It doesn’t end
with the first solution. How often have you found that somebody else has
a very similar problem? By remixing (a process of changing inputs, but
not functionality) your solution they now solved their problem. Compound
solutions. With a solid community infrastructure the potential for
recycling (a process of changing a simple piece of functionality and
creating a new app) enters the fray. More compound solutions.

Ok, how’s that for a scratch? Now consider things like my employer,
[Accenture](http://www.accenture.com) National Security Services,
[Forge.mil](https://forge.mil), and a mad dash to demonstrate the
concept. It should be fun, it has been so far. I’m currently a one-man
show wearing the Solution Owner, Scrum Master, QA, Biz Dev and team hats
- all at the same time (yes we’re Agile). I am getting some help from
some very smart people - they’ll get their due in future posts. Right
now I’m working with [GeoServer](http://geoserver.org),
[OpenLayers](http://www.openlayers.org),
[Tomcat](http://tomcat.apache.org), Groovy and
[Grails](http://grails.org), [Openfire XMPP
server](http://www.igniterealtime.org/projects/openfire/index.jsp),
[Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com),
[Eucalyptus](http://www.eucalyptus.com/),
[AppScale](http://code.google.com/p/appscale/), [Amazon Web
Services](http://aws.amazon.com/), a little bit of that, a little bit of
this and [GitHub:FI](http://fi.github.com) (Thanks Milo and Chris for
getting us going).

Some of you might just be asking - do warfighters really code? Yes, yes
they do. More on Carlos Castillo and Paul Lin’s [COIN and intentional
emergence](http://radar.oreilly.com/2009/01/the-army-the-web-and-the-case.html)
story to come too (though Jim, my boss, has pretty much nailed it).
