---
layout: post
title: Groovy or Ruby?  Part Deux...
---

I’m sure there’s a lot of fuss over the [Why He Chose JRuby over
Groovy](http://www.vitarara.org/cms/why_i_chose_jruby_over_groovy)
article that wormed its way yesterday. I couldn’t help but smile while
reading it.

Having been a part of the dialog in both Ruby and Java/Groovy camps
(including seriously over-heated mailing list exchanges) it somewhat
surprises me that anyone would “pick” any language/platform in the
blanket sense. Although I would tend to shy away from Java (and thus
Groovy) I know it has its place firmly rooted in many enterprises,
applications, and appliances. Ruby for me, and my developers, is more
about simply doing something we like to do (very fast) and seeing a
high-rate of success. The details are left for others to banter about,
like Why He Chose JRuby…

I wish there was some scientific, empirical evidence that could quantify
the developmental performance rates of both Ruby and Groovy. Any of you
PhD candidates out there…sign up.

Here’s a thought: use whatever makes sense. If your developers have a
rich background in Java, don’t push Ruby on them and expect great
things. If your developers are willing to “adapt and overcome” throw a
few prototype Ruby projects out there, providing the opportunity for
them to grow horizontally. Whenever I come across the Java/Ruby
arguments I always see the same thing. The Java crowd always comes off
as ultra-conservative to the point of stubbornness. The “other” crowd
always comes off as passionate and eccentric to the point of juvenile.

Parting shot - the debate/argument is more about the communities than
the tech. Look deep into what’s happening in each, and who the players
are.
